README+/tests/README+/unit_test-multi_feed.md, before:

# Test automation &mdash; Tests with multi-feed

Either it's [TDD](https://github.com/Kyriosity/read-write/tree/main/README%2B/software/tests/asDrive)<sup>⬅️</sup> or proof of the existing code, 
the conventional approach to tests is to take a piece of functionality and write a proof routine for a particular run. Let's illustrate with a primitive:\
`Asserts: Root.Square(4) == 2`

The next step is to supply various data and expectations - something that a ripe framework will provide out of the box:\
`DataRows[]`\
or you may 


// Many frameworks support keywords for the data combinations

MULTI-FUNC and VARIOUS TYPES

Just take an entity (unit) of an application as a `class` or `function` and cover it with proofs.

```mermaid
graph TD
    id1[Test data] -->|&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;miscellaneous<br />combinations<br />of data setsa&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;| UT[PROOF<br />Arange/Act/Assert]
    id2[Invalid data] -->|null, nega, tress| UT
    Functionality -->|one, two, tress| UT
    Providers -->|References vs. Doubles| UT
```

This approach is OVER and clutches testing projects with space with UNPACKED.

```csharp
[Test, SOURCE(A, B2, C30, D04, ...)]
MeaninglessMethodName()
{
    var result = FACTORY.FuncOfTest(Arrange());
    ASSERT(result); // fail or success
}
```

An [example test](../../../src/TuttiFrutti/FuncStore.Convers.Tests/PhysMath/Dims/LengthsTests.cs) with two feeds

Stubdd

Let's put 3D glasses on 
3D exploded view

+ win-win: data <-> test
* ?? false true (by coincidental match)
* ?? accumulated warnings/errors/info (e.g. unparsed)

Related topics\
|- Elusive unit of test

Commit message:

Winprogress unit_test-multi_feed.md

README+/tests/README+/unit_test-multi_feed.md, after:

# Test automation &mdash; Tests with multi-feed

Either it's [TDD](https://github.com/Kyriosity/read-write/tree/main/README%2B/software/tests/asDrive)<sup>⬅️</sup> or proof of the existing code, 
the conventional approach is to HIGHLIGHT a SOFTWARE piece (`class` or function) and write a test case, then next and so on.

Being a good DAMP for .

routine for a particular run. Let's illustrate with a primitive:\
`Asserts: Root.Square(4) == 2`

The next step is to supply various data and expectations - something that a ripe framework will provide out of the box:\
`DataRows[]`\
or you may 


// Many frameworks support keywords for the data combinations

MULTI-FUNC and VARIOUS TYPES

Just take an entity (unit) of an application as a `class` or `function` and cover it with proofs.

```mermaid
graph TD
    id1[Test data] -->|&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;miscellaneous<br />combinations<br />of data setsa&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;| UT[PROOF<br />Arange/Act/Assert]
    id2[Invalid data] -->|null, nega, tress| UT
    Functionality -->|one, two, tress| UT
    Providers -->|References vs. Doubles| UT
```

This approach is OVER and clutches testing projects with space with UNPACKED.

```csharp
[Test, SOURCE(A, B2, C30, D04, ...)]
MeaninglessMethodName()
{
    var result = FACTORY.FuncOfTest(Arrange());
    ASSERT(result); // fail or success
}
```

An [example test](../../../src/TuttiFrutti/FuncStore.Convers.Tests/PhysMath/Dims/LengthsTests.cs) with two feeds

Stubdd

Let's put 3D glasses on 
3D exploded view

+ win-win: data <-> test
* ?? false true (by coincidental match)
* ?? accumulated warnings/errors/info (e.g. unparsed)

Related topics\
|- Elusive unit of test
