README+/decisions/README+/model_as_tasks.md, before:

# Tasks as model

Most or many well-known templates/paradigms, as MVC, MVP/MVVM, MVW(hatever), POCO, and custom solutions rest on models. 

Developers bind presentations, actions, and messages to values/properties. There's nothing wrong with this approach (especially for abstraction and logical division) but oversimplicity and static character.

Values can be not only primitively loaded/changed but also heavy calculated, rendered by a rudimentary service, read from slow storage, and awaited from unpredictable input (chess moves or vacation approval for example).

Any operation can fail or be be suspended or cancelled on both sides.

DIRECT/SYNC classical implementation  incurs perpetual patching of lags for reactive  experience (which is not in this day and age?). 

Enough scenarios may mock delays to catch user attention or show proof of work<sup>⏳</sup>. In some others the possible (non)availability of value or its promise is itself the value (e.g. `CanExecute` for commands).

Now, ooh, spice these reactive interfaces with `async`: you must now break the queue of values into orchestration. EXAMPLE !

To make the thing worse recall that besides multitasking there's multi-dispatching (that's how auto-save, or spellcheck run).

\_______\
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;<sup>⏳</sup> <sub>For example, saving a giga-document, rebuilding a solution, or making a bank transaction can occur unexpectedly instant for users.</sub>

## New thinking

Modern languages and frameworks GRANT brilliant multitasking and synchro tools out-of-the-box.

lets FIT them to templates!


## Appendices. Techniques

Behind presentations, there could be some tricks to make them even better or worse (since any pattern is antipattern too).

### Laziness (not of a developer)

Since the olden days, programers used to defer initialization/calculation of less or more "heavy" entities. This allows to **a)**&nbsp;load the stuff on&nbsp;demand only (eco-friendly), **b)**&nbsp;spread resources peaks, **c)**&nbsp;split suspense (which nevertheless remains).

THOUGH LAZY LOAD is still practical

In C# you can do it either with `Lazy<...>` or custom code like this:

<details><summary><ins>&nbsp;Deferred loading snippet&nbsp;</ins></summary>
&nbsp;
  
  ```csharp
public BigAndHeavy Ram => _ram ?? LoadAndHit();
private BigAndHeavy? _ram;
  ```
</details>

Nowadays it's ALSO an anti-pattern.

### As an "anti-pattern"

### Praise and critique of preloading

The power and storage even of home laptops are multicore, excessive, and mostly idle<sup>:video_game:</sup>, while platforms like .NET ensure the smooth background running of multiple processes.

The story got inverted Lazy Loading - it's not crucial to delay tasks but to complete them as much as possible earlier and in the background, and then seamlessly produce results when asked.

It doesn't matter if you "pre-load" a dozen things, of which only one will be selected by the user (e.g. next wizard page dependent on differing paths). Compare to warehouses, where it costs to keep a supply of goods, for a single purpose to be delivered within a day when the customer orders.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;<sup>:video_game:</sup> <sub>Assumed: usual office, browsers, business applications, and dev environments (not high-performance servers, top games, video processing or mining).</sub>

ECO-FRIENDLY ANTONYM? Let's conisder if after the last mining farm is CLOSED.

#### Caching

### Streaming (not on TitTok only 🍨🌹🥥)

Processing sync/async streams is a relatively fresh technique, which only requires a reference to its [foundation](https://github.com/ReactiveX)<sup>🔗</sup>.

\___________\
🔚 🌔 <sub>2024 Kyriosity ... 🚧 work in (slow) progress 🐝</sub>

Commit message:

🚧 upd model_as_tasks.md

README+/decisions/README+/model_as_tasks.md, after:

# Tasks as model

Most or many well-known templates/paradigms, such as MVC, MVP/MVVM, MV-Whatever, POCO, and custom solutions rest on [models](https://github.com/Kyriosity/read-write/blob/main/README%2B/software/design/parts/README+/app-model.md)<sup>⬅️</sup>. 

Developers bind presentations, actions, and messages to values/properties. There's nothing wrong with this approach (especially for abstraction and logical division) but oversimplicity and static character.

Values can be not only coded/(re)set but also heavily calculated, rendered by a rudimentary service, read from slow storage, and awaited from unpredictable input (chess moves or vacation approval for example).

Any operation can fail or be suspended or canceled on both sides.

DIRECT/SYNC classical implementation  incurs perpetual patching of lags for reactive  experience (which is not in this day and age?). 

Enough scenarios may mock delays to catch user attention or show proof of work<sup>⏳</sup>. In some others, the possible (non)availability of value or its promise is itself the value (e.g. `CanExecute` for commands).

Now, ooh, spice these reactive interfaces with `async`: you must now break the queue of values into orchestration. EXAMPLE !

To make the thing worse recall that besides multitasking there's multi-dispatching (that's how auto-save, or spellcheck runs).

\_______\
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;<sup>⏳</sup> <sub>For example, saving a giga-document, rebuilding a solution, or making a bank transaction can occur unexpectedly instant for users.</sub>

## Re-thinking model and presentation

Modern languages and frameworks GRANT brilliant multitasking and synchro tools out-of-the-box.

lets FIT them to templates!

EVENTS

## Appendices. Techniques

Behind presentations, there could be some tricks to make them even better or worse (since any pattern is antipattern too).

### Laziness (not of a developer)

Since the olden days, programmers used to defer initialization/calculation of less or more "heavy" entities. This allows to **a)**&nbsp;load the stuff on&nbsp;demand only (eco-friendly), **b)**&nbsp;spread resources peaks, **c)**&nbsp;split suspense (which nevertheless remains).

THOUGH LAZY LOAD is still practical

In C# you can do it either with `Lazy<...>` or custom code like this:

<details><summary><ins>&nbsp;Deferred loading snippet&nbsp;</ins></summary>
&nbsp;
  
  ```csharp
public BigAndHeavy Ram => _ram ?? LoadAndHit();
private BigAndHeavy? _ram;
  ```
</details>

Nowadays it's ALSO an anti-pattern.

### As an "anti-pattern"

### Praise and critique of preloading

The power and storage even of home laptops are multicore, excessive, and mostly idle<sup>:video_game:</sup>, while platforms like .NET ensure the smooth background running of multiple processes.

The story got inverted Lazy Loading - it's not crucial to delay tasks but to complete them as much as possible earlier and in the background, and then seamlessly produce results when asked.

It doesn't matter if you "pre-load" a dozen things, of which only one will be selected by the user (e.g. next wizard page dependent on differing paths). Compare to warehouses, where it costs to keep a supply of goods, for a single purpose to be delivered within a day when the customer orders.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;<sup>:video_game:</sup> <sub>Assumed: usual office, browsers, business applications, and dev environments (not high-performance servers, top games, video processing or mining).</sub>

ECO-FRIENDLY ANTONYM? Let's conisder if after the last mining farm is CLOSED.

#### Caching

### Streaming (not on TitTok only 🍨🌹🥥)

Processing sync/async streams is a relatively fresh technique, which only requires a reference to its [foundation](https://github.com/ReactiveX)<sup>🔗</sup>.

\___________\
🔚 🌔 <sub>2024 Kyriosity ... 🚧 work in (slow) progress 🐝</sub>
